so Murray you know we can't control
things that happen to us in life but we
can't control our responses to them can
you say a little bit about resilience
I'm happy to talk about it because I
think it's so important we deal with
trauma all the time mm-hmm and one of
the things I don't think has talked
about enough is that traumatic
experience doesn't necessarily mean that
you have to be traumatized mmm
the becoming traumatized is often an
interface between a bad thing happening
and our own coping skills mm-hmm and the
more coping skills we have then the more
able we are to metabolize or deal with
trauma right so one of the things I'm
always working with with my students and
with my patients is to try to build our
own coping skills because I can't I
can't make a life for you or for me that
will have no bad things happen mm-hmm
but maybe what we can do is strengthen
ourselves so I've actually come up with
four handy-dandy ways yeah there you go
to help us build our own strength and
coping as a place to start anyway the
first thing is to always remind
ourselves about what's going right every
day but a very good way to start your
day and end your day mm-hmm is to think
about all the things that are going
right and it may be only that I had
breakfast
right yes maybe only that the Sun is
finally shining but whatever is going
right and if there's something like a
raise at work or an a on your paper all
the better but it doesn't have to be a
big thing yes to allow ourselves to
celebrate and appreciate all the little
things that happen in our lives as well
secondly to always act more positive
than we feel yeah no that's a challenge
why would I act positive when I feel
crummy hmm but you know it's it's
actually threaded through folklore and
somebody's that people talk about faking
it mm-hmm
in order to then make it yeah it comes
from a a you're sure good until you make
it so if I act positive if I come in in
the morning and even if I feel crummy I
say good morning day yeah isn't it a
beautiful day right that actually builds
my own sense of competence and
confidence in the world
acting kind mmm so that I'm contributing
to the kindness in the world making the
world a better place if I am feeling
crummy and then I Grouch at you all I've
done is make the world more crummy yes
but if instead if I'm feeling sort of
down myself yeah I do something nice for
you if I bring you your coffee if I say
gee you're looking great today right not
only if I made myself feel better but
I've also made them absolutely
absolutely and you know this is the one
people give me the most trouble on
number four mmm dress as though you're
successful mm-hmm there's actually
research that shows that students who
get up in the morning before an exam and
get dressed and do their hair yes do
better on the exam sure sure okay I feel
good enough about myself right but I'm
gonna present myself to the world
yeah the way that says I'm a put
together person and it's interesting how
cyclical that becomes because of course
the world responds to me right as a put
together person right and then that
feeds my sense of self-confidence so
that then I go out in the world as a
more confident person
absolutely so to summarise right and
then do it summarise is first of all
remind yourself what's going right you
know it's gonna build your sense of
self-esteem
act more positive than you feel your
feelings will catch up with your action
to practice those random acts of
kindness when people talk about right
and finally put yourself together right
yourself together in the morning present
yourself as a person who's moved
together and you will invite more
positive things to happen for you well
that sounds great you know as you were
talking about that and we think of two
pieces of research that came from the
pen program in the resilience and one of
them was to challenge your thoughts
right away like if you have a really
negative thought or something that's not
you know feeling right of all this means
I'm not going to get this or very first
thing to do would be to challenge your
thought so that that negative thought
doesn't really get a toehold well if I
think
Yeah right right everything's going
wrong today I missed the bus I'm not
going to get to work they're gonna fire
me like in other words when we have a
negative thought it sort of pulls all
the other negative thoughts on it would
be a way to challenge that negativity
right up front and you challenge it by
saying is there another way to look at
this yes I'm gonna be 15 minutes late
but I'll be able to explain what
happened or even better
is there something positive that might
be happening here maybe that other bus
gets stuck in traffic and you know isn't
going to get to work on time but to just
challenge the negative thought right at
its base because I think that the four
things you said are exactly right
but sometimes when the negative stuff
gets a toehold on us it keeps us from
even doing these things so challenging
the negativity might be one way to
loosen that up and let these four things
flourish